# Time-Series-Analysis
Mini projects in TSA

Three mini projects covering aspects of data analysis/time series analysis including ARMA/ARIMA and ARCH/GARCH models:

1) `NASA_Sunspots.ipynb` studies publicly available data on solar activity collected by NASA as an example of a dataset that exhibits seasonality. We discuss some basic techniques used to reduce noice (resampling, rolling statistics) and make the time series stationary (differencing). We finally split the data into solar cycles and compare the behaviour over successive cycles.

2) `CO2_Level_Forecast_SARIMA.ipynb` fits a seasonal ARIMA(p,d,q)(P,D,Q)s model to data on CO<sub>2</sub> levels collected at an observatory at Mauna Loa, Hawaii, between March 1998 and December 2001. We disscuss model selection from a grid-search of the parameters (p,d,q,P,D,Q) via the Akaike information criterion (AIC) and discuss goodness of fit by studying the residuals of the model. Finally, we use the selected model for forecasting CO<sub>2</sub> levels, including confidence intervals, and compare to the actual observed values.

3) GARCH (Geralised AutoRegressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity) models are random walk models that are designed to tackle data which exhibit conditional non-constant volatility (*heteroskedasticity*). Such datsets are ubiquitous in finance where uncertainty takes time to dissipate (large swings typically beget large swings); a phenomenon known as *volatilitiy clustering*. Whereas stochastic volatility models such as the Heston model (discussed in another project) can only describe unconditional heteroskedasticity, GARCH models allow conditioning on past values to introduce serial correlation in the variance process which allows them to model the aforementioned volatility clustering. `GARCH.ipynb` fits various GARCH models and their extensions to financial data, chooses the best via various metrics and uses it to forecast a 1 month period. The result is then compared to the realised valued over the forecast period.
